Ver. PayID protocol for Identity Keys (#38)
payid-org/rfcs: dist/spec/verifiable-payid-protocol-NC.txt

   safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two
   parties.  JWTs encode claims as a JSON object that is used as the
   payload of a JWS structure enabling the claims to be digitally
   signed.  Below we define the three components of JWS.

3.1.1.  JOSE Protected Header

   For JWS, the members of the JSON object represented by the JOSE
   Header describe the cryptographic operations applied to the JWS
   Protected header and the JWS payload and optionally additional
   properties of the JWS.

Malhotra & Schwartz     Expires January 31, 2021                [Page 4]

Internet-Draft     Verifiable PayID Protocol Extension         July 2020

   For a complete list of members of this object, refer to [RFC7519] and
   [RFC7515].  Following is an example of a JWT object representing JOSE
   header parameters for JWS JSON Serialization syntax.

   {
          "name": "identityKey",
          "alg" : "ES256K",
          "typ" : "JOSE+JSON",
          "b64" : "false",
          "crit": ["b64"],
          "jwk" :  {
               "kty": "EC",
               "use": "sig",
               "crv": "secp256k1",
               "x"  : "0",

>                "y". : "0",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               "y". : "0",
               "kid": "9eb5ce46-4240-4ba7-b39a-317534ad3f06",
               "alg": "ES256K"
```

Not sure if we _also_ want to limit the key to signing operations, but that is possible by adding the alg to the `jwk`. Not sure if this is advisable or not?

                   },
   }

3.1.1.1.  name

   The "name" Header Parameter identifies the type of signature.  It is
   a new OPTIONAL header parameter that is not defined in the IANA JSON
   Web Signature and Encryption Header Parameters Registry.

3.1.1.2.  alg

   The "alg" (algorithm) Header Parameter identifies the cryptographic
   algorithm used to secure the JWS.  This is a required field as
   described in [RFC7515].  We RECOMMEND using "ES256K" which is
   Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) using secp256k1
   curve-type and SHA-256 hash-type as defined in IANA JSON Web
   Signature and Encryption Header Parameters Registry.

3.1.1.3.  typ

   The "typ" (type) Header Parameter is used by JWS applications to
   declare the media type of the complete JWS.  This is an optional

>    field as described in [RFC7515].

Reviewer: For our usages, I believe this header needs to be set to `JOSE+JSON`. See https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7515#section-4.1.9

3.1.1.4.  b64

   The "b64" (base64url-encode) Header Parameter is an extension to JWS

>    specification that determines how payload is represented in the JWS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   specification that determines how a payload is represented in the JWS
```

>    and the JWS signing input.  When the "b64" value is "false", the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and the JWS signing input.  When the "b64" value is `false`, the
```

   payload is represented simply as the JWS Payload value with no

>    encoding; otherwise, it is represented as ASCII(BASE64URL(JWS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   encoding; otherwise, it is represented as BASE64URL(JWS
```

>    Payload)).  This is an optional field as described in [RFC7797].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Payload).  This is an optional field as described in [RFC7797].
```

Reviewer: I don't think the Payload is optional is V.PayID, is it?

Author: This sentence refers to parameter "b64" as optional.

      algorithm family used with the key, such as "EC" for Elliptic
      Curve.

   o  use: The "use" (public key use) parameter identifies the intended
      use of the public key such as "sig" for signature.

   o  crv : The "crv" (Curve) parameter represents the elliptic curve-
      type and the hash-type such as "secp256k1" represents curve-type
      "secp256k1" and the hash-type "SHA-256".

   o  x : Since we assume the "alg" parameter as "ES256K" which is one
      from the ECDSA family, so "x" parameter represents the
      X-coordinate of the corresponding public key.

   o  y : Since we assume the "alg" parameter as "ES256K" which is one
      from the ECDSA family, so "y" parameter represents the
      Y-coordinate of the corresponding public key.

   Note: "jwk" is one way way of embedding public key in the JOSE
   header.  For more details on other possible options for "alg" and
   representing public keys refer to [RFC7515].

3.1.2.  JWS Payload

   The JWS payload is the message that needs to be signed.

Malhotra & Schwartz     Expires January 31, 2021                [Page 6]

Internet-Draft     Verifiable PayID Protocol Extension         July 2020

  {

>           "exp"  : "",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          "exp"  : 1596496501,
```

          "payId": "bob$wallet.com",
          "payIdAddress": {

>             "expTime": "",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "expTime": 34874613475,
```

            "paymentNetwork": "XRPL",
            "environment": "TESTNET",
            "addressDetailsType": "CryptoAddressDetails",
            "addressDetails": {

>               "address": "T7CKYKhRujaxEs9fSxQwJApHsQVPKUgD7EtLWCGTAFBwTha"

Reviewer: X-Address is meant for UI's. For protocol and examples dealing with XRPL, we should use the "classic address syntax, which would look like this:

```
addressDetails: {
  "address": ""rnzBSt9ZCJSh4RxC9f1v6oS9WZtEYJa8B9",
  "tag": "12345"
}
```

            }
          }
  }

3.1.2.1.  exp

>    The "exp" field is an optional field as described in [RFC7797].  If

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The "exp" field is an optional field as described in [RFC7519].  If
```

   used, it SHOULD be set to the expiration time of the cryptographic
   key used to generate the digital signature.

3.1.2.2.  payId

   The "payId" field is a required field.  The value of "payId" field is
   the PayID URI in the client request that identifies the payment
   account information that the JSON object describes.

3.1.2.3.  PayIDAddress

   The "PayIDAddress" is a required field.  The value of "PayIDAddress"
   field is a JSON object with the following keys:

>    o  "expTime": This is an optionl field.  The value of "expTime"

Reviewer: We should define this more clearly. If it's a String, we should clarify that it's structure (e.g., see ISO-8601). 

However, why not mimic the same structure found in [RFC7519](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519#section-4.1.4) for the `exp` claim, which is defined to be a `NumericDate`?

Author: Agreed, we can use the same structure.

      string is set to the maximum time upto which the payment address
      in the "address" field is valid.

   o  "paymentNetwork": The value of the "paymentNetwork" is the value
      of payment-network string as specified in the client request's
      "Accept" header.

   o  "environment": The value of "environment" string is the value of
      environment as specified in the client request's "Accept" header.

   o  "addressDetailsType": The value of "addressDetailsType" is one of
      the following strings:

      *  CryptoAddressDetails

      *  FiatAddressDetails

Malhotra & Schwartz     Expires January 31, 2021                [Page 7]

Internet-Draft     Verifiable PayID Protocol Extension         July 2020

   o  "addressDetails": The value of "addressDetails" is the address
      information necessary to send payment on a specific
      "paymentNetwork" and "environment".

   The "address" field MUST be present in the JWS payload.

3.1.3.  JWS signature

   The JWS signature is the digital signature which is calculated over
   the JOSE header and the JWS payload.

>     "signature": "base64Signature"

Reviewer: Not sure what the right syntax/formatting is here, but maybe this?

```suggestion
    "signature": "{base64Signature}"
```

3.1.3.1.  signature

>    The value of "signature" field is computed as described in [RFC7515].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The value of `signature` is computed as described in [RFC7515].
```

3.2.  End-to-End Verifiable PayID Protocol Flow for Non-Custodial
      Wallets and Exchanges

>    A pre-requisite for this extension of Verifiable PayID protocol

Reviewer: TODO: Remove extension?

   requires the PayID owner to transfer signed "PaymentInformation" to

>    the PayID server.  In this document we specify one such way of doing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the PayID server. This document specifies one such way of doing
```

   this.

>    Following are the pre-steps at PayID owner's (non-custodial wallet's

Reviewer: Consider `The following are the pre-steps that a PayID owner's device should perform locally:`

   customer) device locally:

3.2.1.  Generating PayID Key-pair

   We RECOMMEND using elliptic curve (EC) key type with Elliptic Curve
   Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) with secp256k1 curve for

>    signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   creating signed JWS content.
```

3.2.2.  Generating JWS Token

   For each "payment-network" and "environment" that the PayID owner has
   a payment address for, generate the JOSE header, JWS Payload and JWS
   Signature as described above.  A complete "PaymentInformation"
   response might look like:

   {

Malhotra & Schwartz     Expires January 31, 2021                [Page 8]

Internet-Draft     Verifiable PayID Protocol Extension         July 2020

 "payId": "bob$wallet.com",
 "addresses": [],
 "verifiedAddresses": [
    {
        "signatures": [
          {
            "protected": {
              "name": "identityKey",
              "alg": "ES256K",
              "typ": "JOSE+JSON",
              "b64": "false",
              "crit": ["b64"],
              "jwk": {
                  "kty": "EC",
                  "use": "sig",
                  "crv": "secp256k1",
                  "x": "b8w36l6eCf7GyD5fvXp0Xj7ugdFuvYYcnmb1VRjBl5g=",
                  "y": "Tp8RPAf4dWkd+K/BApSW/Ey5UJs53NOPJRqDNZzItPc=",
              },
            },
            "signature": "base64Signature",
          }
          ]
        "payload": {

>             "exp" :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "exp" : 34874613475,
```

            "payId": "bob$wallet.com",
            "payIdAddress": {
              "expTime":
              "paymentNetwork": "XRPL",
              "environment": "TESTNET",
              "addressDetailsType": "CryptoAddressDetails",
              "addressDetails": {

>                 "address": "T7CKYKhRujaxEs9fSxQwJApHsQVPKUgD7EtLWCGTAFBwTha"

Reviewer: See comment above about X-Address

               }
             }
          }
        }
      ]
    }

   o  addresses: The "addresses" array is an OPTIONAL field.  The
      implementations MAY choose to populate this field with payment
      address(es) information as per [PAYID-PROTOCOL].  The
      implementations SHOULD refer to Security Considerations sections
      for the possible security trade-offs while using this field.

>    o  VerifiedAddresses: The "VerifiedAddresses" is a required field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   o  VerifiedAddresses: The "VerifiedAddresses" property is a required field.
```

   corresponding to PayID.

3.3.1.  PayID Client Requesting the PaymentInformation Resource

   When requesting the "PaymentInformation" resource, a verifiable PayID
   client MAY use the same HTTP "GET" method as in [PAYID-PROTOCOL] to
   the PayID URL without any query parameters and body.

   The PayID client MUST query the PayID server using HTTPS only.
   [RFC2818] defines how HTTPS verifies the PayID server's identity.  If
   the HTTPS connection cannot be established for any reason, then the
   PayID client MUST accept that the PayID request has failed and MUST
   NOT attempt to reissue the PayID request using HTTP over a non-secure
   connection.

3.3.2.  PayID Server Responding to the PaymentInformation Resource
        Request

   Upon receiving a "GET" request for a payment accounts(s) information
   resource or a "PaymentInformation" resource, a PayID server that
   supports Verifiable PayID protocol returns the "PaymentInformation"
   resource for the "payment-network" and "environment" requested by the
   PayID client in the request "Accept" header field, along with other
   required and/or optional metadata.

>    However, if PayID server does not support the Verifiable PayID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   However, if the PayID server does not support the Verifiable PayID
```

   protocol, the PayID server sends back a response as described in
   [PAYID-PROTOCOL].

   If the PayID server does not contain the payment accounts(s)
   information resource or a "PaymentInformation" resource resource
   corresponding to the request, the PayID server MUST respond with an
   appropriate error message.

Malhotra & Schwartz     Expires January 31, 2021               [Page 10]

Internet-Draft     Verifiable PayID Protocol Extension         July 2020

3.3.3.  Parsing the PaymentInformation Response

   The PayID client MUST conform to the verification of JWS as specified

>    in [RFC7515] and [RFC7519].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   in [RFC7515].
```

4.  Example Use of the Verifiable PayID Protocol

   This section shows sample use of this extension of verifiable PayID
   protocol in a hypothetical scenario.

4.1.  Verifiable PayID Protocol by a Non-Custodial Wallet as PayID
      Server

   Suppose Alice wishes to send a friend some XRP from a web-based
   wallet provider that Alice has an account on.  Alice would log-in to
   the wallet provider and enter Bob's PayID (say, "bob$wallet.com")
   into the wallet UI to start the payment.  The Wallet application
   would first discover the PayID URL for the PayID service-provider
   using one of the mechanisms described in PayID discovery
   [PAYID-DISCOVERY] protocol.

   The Wallet application would then issue an HTTPS GET request:

    GET /users/bob HTTP/1.1
    Host: www.wallet.com
    Accept: application/xrpl-testnet+json
    PayID-version: 1.0

>    Bob's wallet who is a non-custodial PayID server might respond like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Bob's wallet (e.g., a non-custodial wallet operating a PayID server) might respond like
```

   this:

Malhotra & Schwartz     Expires January 31, 2021               [Page 11]

Internet-Draft     Verifiable PayID Protocol Extension         July 2020

 HTTP/1.1 200 OK
 Content-Type: application/json
 Content-Length: 403
 PayID-Version: 1.0
 Cache-Control: "no-store"
 Server: Apache/1.3.11
{
 "payId": "bob$wallet.com",
 "addresses": [],
 "verifiedAddresses": [
    {
        "signatures": [
          {
            "protected": {
              "name": "identityKey",
              "alg": "ES256K",
              "typ": "JOSE+JSON",
              "b64": "false",
              "crit": ["b64"],
              "jwk": {
                  "kty": "EC",
                  "use": "sig",
                  "crv": "secp256k1",
                  "x": "b8w36l6eCf7GyD5fvXp0Xj7ugdFuvYYcnmb1VRjBl5g=",
                  "y": "Tp8RPAf4dWkd+K/BApSW/Ey5UJs53NOPJRqDNZzItPc=",
              },
            },
            "signature": "base64Signature",
          }
          ]
        "payload": {

>             "exp" : "1234574940",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "exp" : 1234574940,
```

            "payId": "bob$wallet.com",
            "payIdAddress": {

>               "expTime": "34874613475",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              "expTime": 34874613475,
```

              "paymentNetwork": "XRPL",
              "environment": "TESTNET",
              "addressDetailsType": "CryptoAddressDetails",
              "addressDetails": {
                "address": "T7CKYKhRujaxEs9fSxQwJApHsQVPKUgD7EtLWCGTAFBwTha"
               }
             }
          }
        }
      ]
  }

Malhotra & Schwartz     Expires January 31, 2021               [Page 12]

Internet-Draft     Verifiable PayID Protocol Extension         July 2020

   In the above example, the "PaymentInformation" resource is a pre-
   signed message with the PayID private keys of the PayID owner Bob.
   Bob's non-custodial wallet retrieves this response and sends it to
   the PayID client.

5.  Security Considerations

   This security considerations section only considers verifiable PayID
   clients and servers bound to implementations as defined in this
   document.

>    The security guarantees mentioned in [PAYID-PROTOCOL] applies to this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The security guarantees mentioned in [PAYID-PROTOCOL] apply to this
```

>    extension of verifiable PayID protocol.  In this section, we discuss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   protocol.  In this section, we discuss
```

   a security model for the Verifiable PayID protocol for non-custodial
   service providers.

5.1.  Security Model for Non-Custodial PayID Service Providers

   In the current security model, non-custodial wallets do not store

>    their customers' keys on their servers.  The customers hold their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   their customers' keys.  Instead, wallet customers hold their
```

>    private keys on their device.  There is a no trust requirement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   private keys on their own device(s).  There is a no trust requirement
```

>    between the service provided by the non-custodial wallets and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   between the service provided by a non-custodial wallet and its customers.
```

>    customers of this service.  Since the customers hold the private

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Because customers in these scenarios hold the private
```

>    keys: * The wallets are not liable for any consequences coming from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   keys: * Wallets are not liable for any consequences coming from
```

>    the lost, compromised or hacked private keys of the customers.  * The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  loss, compromise, or theft of customers' private keys.  * 
```

>    non-custodial wallets do not require their customers to trust their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Non-custodial wallets do not require their customers to trust their
```

   servers in case wallets servers go malicious or are compromised.

>    This extension of verifiable PayID protocol preserves this trust

Reviewer: Nit: extension.

   model.  Consequently, a non-custodial wallet running a PayID server
   has no liability for providing accurate "PaymentInformation" for
   their customers that is signed with the private key of the non-
   custodial PayID server wallet.  Instead, the PayID owners can
   generate these signed mappings with their own PayID private key

>    locally on their app/device.  The sender of the payment (PayID client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   locally on their app/device.  The sender of the payment (i.e., PayID client
```

   wallet's customer) can easily verify these signatures based on the

>    trust relationship between the sender and the receiver (PayID owner).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   trust relationship between the sender and the receiver (i.e., PayID owner).
```

   This eliminates any risk of the non-custodial PayID server wallet
   losing its private keys, going malicious, getting hacked, or becoming

>    otherwise compromised in a way that customers might lose funds.

Reviewer: This protocol eliminating the risk of "Customers losing funds" feels a bit overstated to me. 

E.g., this protocol doesn't force a client to use any particular method to "trust an identity key", which could be a vector of losing funds, even if the protocol in this document is implemented perfectly.

5.2.  Using JWTs

   The implementations of this extension of Verifiable PayID protocol
   MUST refer to the Security Considerations sections of [RFC7515] and

Malhotra & Schwartz     Expires January 31, 2021               [Page 13]

Internet-Draft     Verifiable PayID Protocol Extension         July 2020

5.3.  Using addresses Array

   The "addresses" array in the "PaymentInformation" response is an
   array of unsigned payment addresses.  Implementations of this
   extension of verifiable PayID that choose to populate this array
   along with the "verifiedAddresses" array MAY be vulnerable to
   downgrade attacks.  We RECOMMEND against populating this array unless
   absolutely necessary depending on the use-case.  ALso, note that this
   approach is not backwards-compatible with the PayID clients that do
   not understand verifiable PayID.

6.  Privacy Considerations

   All privacy guarantees in the Privacy Considerations section of
   [PAYID-PROTOCOL] apply to this extension of verifiable PayID
   protocol.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

>    [DID]      "Digital Identity Alliance", n.d.,

Reviewer: This reference is not part of this document.

              <https://www.didalliance.org/>.

>    [GiD]      "Global identity", n.d., <https://www.global.id/>.

Reviewer: This reference is not part of this document.

>    [HUUID]    "Human Universally Unique Identifier", n.d.,

Reviewer: This reference is not part of this document.

              <https://github.com/codetsunami/HumanUUID>.

   [PAYID-DISCOVERY]
              Fuelling, D., "PayID Discovery", n.d..

   [PAYID-PROTOCOL]
              Schwartz, D., "PayID Protocol", n.d..

   [PAYID-URI]
              Fuelling, D., "The 'payid' URI Scheme", n.d.,
              <https://tbd.example.com/>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC2818]  Rescorla, E., "HTTP Over TLS", RFC 2818,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2818, May 2000,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2818>.

Malhotra & Schwartz     Expires January 31, 2021               [Page 14]

Internet-Draft     Verifiable PayID Protocol Extension         July 2020

   [RFC4949]  Shirey, R., "Internet Security Glossary, Version 2",
              FYI 36, RFC 4949, DOI 10.17487/RFC4949, August 2007,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4949>.

>    [RFC5280]  Cooper, D., Santesson, S., Farrell, S., Boeyen, S.,

Reviewer: This reference is not part of this document.

              Housley, R., and W. Polk, "Internet X.509 Public Key
              Infrastructure Certificate and Certificate Revocation List
              (CRL) Profile", RFC 5280, DOI 10.17487/RFC5280, May 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5280>.

>    [RFC6979]  Pornin, T., "Deterministic Usage of the Digital Signature

Reviewer: This reference is not part of this document.

              Algorithm (DSA) and Elliptic Curve Digital Signature
              Algorithm (ECDSA)", RFC 6979, DOI 10.17487/RFC6979, August
              2013, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6979>.

>    [RFC7258]  Farrell, S. and H. Tschofenig, "Pervasive Monitoring Is an

Reviewer: This reference is not part of this document.

              Attack", BCP 188, RFC 7258, DOI 10.17487/RFC7258, May
              2014, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7258>.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web
              Signature (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7515>.

   [RFC7517]  Jones, M., "JSON Web Key (JWK)", RFC 7517,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7517, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7517>.

>    [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token

Reviewer: This reference is not part of this document.

              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7797]  Jones, M., "JSON Web Signature (JWS) Unencoded Payload
              Option", RFC 7797, DOI 10.17487/RFC7797, February 2016,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7797>.

>    [RFC8422]  Nir, Y., Josefsson, S., and M. Pegourie-Gonnard, "Elliptic

Reviewer: This reference is not part of this document.

              Curve Cryptography (ECC) Cipher Suites for Transport Layer
              Security (TLS) Versions 1.2 and Earlier", RFC 8422,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8422, August 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8422>.

>    [RFC8446]  Rescorla, E., "The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol

Reviewer: This reference is not part of this document.

              Version 1.3", RFC 8446, DOI 10.17487/RFC8446, August 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8446>.

>    [VER-PAYID-PROTOCOL]

Reviewer: This reference is not part of this document.
